We discussed in an earlier module
how compression is the elimination of levels
in the supply chain.
The private sector has successfully increased service
and decreased costs by using compression.
Initiatives that help accomplish compression
include implementing vendor managed inventory,
substituting cross-docking operations
for traditional warehousing operations,
and contracting for vendors to deliver directly
to customers, also known as Prime Vendor or government.
Another mechanism that is commonly used
for reducing layers in the supply chain are PBL contracts.
These processes are known for speeding the flow
of material and reducing inventory storage.